IMPORTANT WARNING
-----------------

If you choose to use the OpenEEG project hardware and/or software to
do neurofeedback training or experimentation on yourself or others,
you do so ENTIRELY AT YOUR OWN RISK.

The software and hardware designs are distributed in the hope that
they will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.

Whilst our aim is to create a genuinely useful and safe set of tools
for neurofeedback training and experimentation, it is quite possible
that our software, hardware or its accompanying documentation contain
bugs or mistakes which its authors cannot be held responsible for.

Please bear in mind that we are a loosely knit group of experimenters
and enthusiasts from all over the world, and many of us have no formal
training or qualifications in the field of neurofeedback.  It is up to
you to assess the risks you are taking by using our work.

Neurofeedback training in itself can also cause unpleasant
side-effects for a small number of people, or in certain unusual
circumstances.  In an attempt to provide information to allow you to
better judge the risks to yourself, we are listing here the ones we
are aware of.  Remember, though, we are not experts, and you should
research the subject yourself if you want to be sure:

- Electrocution.  If there is an isolation failure in the EEG unit
  (for example through faulty construction), and the EEG subject
  touches a live mains voltage in their environment (for example,
  touching an appliance (e.g. kettle or fridge) where the earthing has
  failed and there is a short-circuit of live voltage to the casing),
  then the mains voltage will take the shortest route to earth.

  This means passing up the arm, to the head, through the electrodes,
  through the isolation failure in the EEG unit, to the PC and then to
  earth.  This electric shock passing through the head is likely to
  have severe consequences.  It is important to take care when
  building the EEG unit to make sure that the isolation is not
  compromised, in order to protect from this eventuality (however
  unlikely it may seem).

  There is another possibile route for electrocution -- if the PC
  earthing fails, and there is also a short of live mains electricity
  to the PC casing, and if the EEG unit isolation fails, and then the
  user touches a correctly earthed appliance in the environment with
  exposed metalwork (e.g. a fridge or sink unit), a shock will again
  pass through the head.

- Anxiety attacks.  (This was mentioned as a possibility, but we have
  no detailed info on this)

- Stimulation of latent seizure activity to full seizure activity.
  (This was also mentioned as a possibility, but we have no detailed
  info on this)

If you are aware of any other unpleasant side-effects of using EEG
equipment or doing neurofeedback training, please let us know through
our mailing list, and we will update this WARNING file.  See
http://openeeg.sf.net/ for details of our mailing list.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ModularEEG hardware design also comes with the following
disclaimer:

  Disclaimer for the ModularEEG design and all related files:

  The ModularEEG device is presented as an engineering example of some
  design techniques used in digitizing brainwave signals.

  The device is not IEC601-1 certified, nor is it medically approved.
  Therefore, connecting it via electrodes to humans or animals is
  potentially hazardous and may result in electric shock.

  No medical claims are made for this device, and it should not be used
  for medical diagnostic purposes.
  
  The authors do not guarantee that the data provided in the above
  mentioned files is complete or appropriate for any particular
  application.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A list member also provided the following warning that might be useful
to people in the USA who plan to use the OpenEEG hardware and/or
software with other people:

  Working on one's self is one thing, but when a person uses it for
  others, there may be state laws that you can run afoul of.  For
  example, in some states there are title laws, meaning one can
  clinically practice anything one wants, but cannot call oneself a
  title which is protected by law, e.g. psychologist.

  Some states have practice laws which prohibit individuals from
  actually doing the activity.  Thus to the extent that NFB training
  can change personality (and it can) one is practicing psychotherapy.

  In the state I live in, that is statutory controlled activity,
  irrespective of what one calls oneself.  Probably if you and your
  friends do it to each other, no one will bother you as long as no one
  gets harmed and there is no basis for a lawsuit.

  If however, you accept money for it, then it could be construed as
  practice or even if no money is taken and you do things to structure
  it so that there is a patient-doctor relationship, there could be
  liability.

  Again, someone would have to claim a harm.  Or, even a practitioner
  in the community, if he or she knows you are doing it for free, can
  complain to the licensing board and have you shut down as engaging
  in unauthorized practice.

  In short, if you accept money for it and/or do it to or with someone
  other than yourself, it is a thin line requiring the lens of an
  expert.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
